# Class 09 read: Forms and JS Events

## Forms

1. **_Why are forms so important in web development?_** - Forms allow users to input data that can be stored or sent to the server. An essential part of the online experience.
2. **_When designing a form, what are some key things to keep in mind when it comes to user experience?_** - The form should not be unclear, difficult to use or unnessesarily long.
3. **_List 5 form elements and explain their importance._**

- `<form>` - This element contains the whole form!
- `<input>` - This void element allows the user to input data in a variety of ways, depending on it's `type` attribute.
- `<textarea>` - This is a non-void element that allows lots of text to be typed on multiple lines.
- `<button>` - This is a button. It can be given a `type` of submit, reset or button.
- `<fieldset>` - This is an element that can have other form elements nested inside of it in order to group them together.

## Events

1. **_How would you describe events to a non-technical friend?_** - While a website runs, the parts of it are always shooting off information when anything happens. Using an event listener, we can capture these pieces of information and perform an action when they happen, such as running a script when an image is clicked.
2. **_When using the `addEventListener()` method, what 2 arguments will you need to provide?_**

- The type of event to listen for (e.g. "click")
- The function to run once that event happens.

3. **_Describe the event object. Why is the target within the event object useful?_** - The even object is an object that is passed to the even handler to provide it with information about the even that happened. The `event.target` property tells the handler which element the event occured upon.
4. **_What is the difference between event bubbling and event capturing?_** -

- Event bubbling means the event fires on the innermost nested target of the event (firing can be limited to only the innermost element with `event.stopPropagation()`)
- Event capturing is the opposite, where events fire from the parent down. This can be activated by adding `{ capture: true }` to your event listener.
