# Read 05 - Images, Colour, Text

## HTML

1. **_What is a real world use case for the alt attribute being used in a website?_** - The alt text appears when an image won't load, giving the user a clue even when the site is broken, it can also be read by screen readers.
2. **_How can you improve accessibility of images in an HTML document?_** - Using descriptive alt text can help people with screen readers
3. **_Provide an example of when the figure element would be useful in an HTML document._** - The figure element is used to group an image and a caption for that image, semantically linking the two together. This would be useful when shwoing many pictures which have associated descriptions
4. **_Describe the difference between a gif image and an svg image, pretend you are explaining to an elder in your community._** - Hello elder. you are so old! lol. Anyway a GIF can move around and is appropriate for simple animated elements but sn't great quality. An SVG image is mathematically defined, meaning it can be scaled to any size
5. **_What image type would you use to display a screenshot on your website and why?_** - PNG is a good option here as it has lossless compression, meaning text won't become fuzzy and unreadable

## CSS

1. **_Describe the difference between foreground and background colors of an HTML element, pretend you are talking to someone with no technical knowledge._** - The foreground colours are colours of the things themselves. like the colour of the text. the background colour is the colour of the space behind the element.
2. **_Your friend asks you to give his colorless blog website a touch up. How would you use color to give his blog some character?_** - You could give a background colour, or maybe add colours to the headers or borders.
3. **_What should you consider when choosing fonts for an HTML document?_** - Choose a font that is easily readable and fits the style of your site. Also choose a backup browser safe font for if you font doesn't load.
4. **_What do font-size, font-weight, and font-style do to HTML text elements?_**

- Font size changes the size of the characters
- Font weight changes the boldness of the font
- font style makes the font italic

5. **_Describe two ways you could add spacing around the characters displayed in an h1 element._** - you could use the letter spacing or word spacing properties
