# Read : Class 02: Basics of HTML CSS and JS

## HTML fundamentals

1. **_Why is it important to use semantic elements in our HTML?_** - A semantic element has meaning to the browser, providing important information for accessability etc. whilst also making your code easier to read.
2. **_How many levels of headings are there in HTML?_** - 6
3. **_What are some uses for the `<sup>` and `<sub>` elements?_**

- Superscript (`<sup>`) can be used to show a number raised to a power among other uses.
- Subscript (`<sub>`) can be used within chemical formulas ect.

4. **_When using the `<abbr>` element, what attribute must be added to provide the full expansion of the term?_** - `<title>`

## CSS fundamentals

1. **_What are ways we can apply CSS to our HTML?_** - We can apply CSS to our HTML using a seperate CSS file and linking it in. We can write an internal stylesheet within our HTML document or we can give inividual elements a style with the style attribute.
2. **_Why should we avoid using inline styles?_** - Doing CSS this way makes code harder to change/maintain and understand.
3. **_Review the block of code below and answer the following questions_**  
   `h2 {color: black; padding: 5px;}`

- **_What is representing the selector?_** - `h2`
- **_Which components are the CSS declarations?_** - `color: black` and `padding: 5px`
- **_Which components are considered properties?_** - `color` and `padding`

## JS fundamentals

1. **_What data type is a sequence of text enclosed in single quote marks?_** - String
2. **_List 4 types of JavaScript operators._** - `+` `==` `&&` `=`
3. **_Describe a real world Problem you could solve with a Function._** - A button could be included on the website which changes some aspect of the site, the function can be stored and called on click of the button

---

1. **_An if statement checks a ... and if it evaluates to ..., then the code block will execute._** - Value, truthy/true
2. **_What is the use of an `else if`?_** - When your if statement doesn't fulfil the first condition, so you wish to present a second condition which can be fulfilled.
3. **_List 3 different types of comparison operators._** - `!=` `==` `===`
4. **_What is the difference between the logical operator `&&` and `||`?_** = `&&` means and and `||` means or
