# Read : Class 03: HTML Lists, Control Flow with JS, and the CSS Box Model

## HTML

1. **_When should you use an unordered list in your HTML document?_** - When you want a list but the order is not important
2. **_How do you change the bullet style of unordered list items?_** - `list-style-type`
3. **_When should you use an ordered list vs an unorder list in your HTML document?_** - You should use an ordered list when you have a list in which the items are important, such as a list of steps in a recipe.
4. **_Describe two ways you can change the numbers on list items provided by an ordered list?_** - The `<type>` attribute sets the numbering type within HTML. `list-style-type` can be used to change it in CSS.

## CSS

1. **_Describe the CSS properties of margin and padding_** - Margin sets a specific offset around the outside of the box, padding sets a distance between the internal content and the boundaries of the box.
2. **_List and describe the four parts of an HTML elements box as referred to by the box model._**

- **Content** - The content inside the box
- **Padding** - The distance between the content and the edge of the box
- **Border** - the edge of the box (Can be styled)
- **Margin** - A distance between the edge of the box and other content on the page.

## JS

1. **_What data types can you store inside of an Array?_** - You can store any data types in an array :\).
2. **_Is the people array a valid JavaScript array? If so, how can I access the values stored? If not, why?_**

- `const people = [['pete', 32, 'librarian', null], ['Smith', 40, 'accountant', 'fishing:hiking:rock_climbing'], ['bill', null, 'artist', null]];`
- This is a valid multidimensional array. To access 'artist' for example we would use `people[2][2]`

3. **_List five shorthand operators for assignment in javascript and describe what they do._**

- `=` assigns a value to a variable
- `+=` adds the first thing to the second thing and assigns it to the first thing
- `-=` similar with subtraction
- `**=` similar with raising to a power of the second thing
- `/=` similar with division

4. **_Read the code below and evaluate the last expression and explain what the result would be and why._**

- `let a = 10; let b = 'dog'; let c = false; // evaluate this (a + c) + b;`
- It would give a string of "10 false dog"

5. **_Describe a real world example of when a conditional statement should be used in a JavaScript program._** - Evaluating whether a user got an answer right in a quiz (`if (answer=="correct")`)
6. **_Give an example of when a Loop is useful in JavaScript._** - A loop can be useful to go through a certain task a set number of times, such as looking through items in an array.
