# Read: Class 01

## Getting started

1. **_Compose a short poem describing how HTTP sends data between computers._** -

Deep inside the windy lands  
of the internet, a server stands  
Always watching, never rests  
it's known by one name, DNS

a messenger approaches, see  
his name is sir HTTP  
The browser sent him on this night  
to fetch a copy of the site  
"DNS" he says, "it's me!"  
"I send my message with IP"

The server stands there, mute and grey  
then says this: "200 OK!"  
Then makes a crazy deafening racket  
and fires a million data packets  
which fly at speed with wings unfurled  
and zoom and zip across the world

the browser grabs these packets right  
and builds with them a lovely site  
So dear reader, be it known  
this is how a site is shown  
all these things must fall in place  
just to look at Chris' face

2. **_Describe how HTML, CSS, and JS files are “parsed” in the browser._**

- Firstly, the browser parses the HTML, meaning it reads the HTML document from top to bottom (during this process it can notice `<link>` elements that contain JS and CSS, sending a request to the server for the CSS and JS files)
- The browser then creates a DOM in it's memory (and a CSSOM), then compiles and executes the JavaScript.
- The DOM and CSSOM are built and the page is printed to the screen.

3. **_How can you find images to add to a Website?_** - There are many ways to find images to add to a website:

- Take / produce them yourself!
- Use a royalty-free picture repository such as unsplash
- Purchase the rights to use stock images from a stock image website.
- Pay a designer to produce graphics/images for you

4. **_How do you create a String vs a Number in JavaScript?_**

- A string is defined by being inside quotation marks, like `"this"`.

- A number is defined as being a number without quotation marks.

5. **_What is a Variable and why are they important in JavaScript?_** - A variable is a value that is used to store some piece of information, probably being referenced or changed later.

## Introduction to HTML

1. **_What is an HTML attribute?_** - A HTML attribute is an extra bit of information that goes inside of the opening tag of an element (eg. `<h1 class="header">`)
2. **_Describe the Anatomy of an HTML element._** - A HTML element has an opening tag (this can contain attributes), content, and a closing tag (same as the opening tag but with a slash)
3. **_What is the Difference between <article> and <section> element tags?_**

- `<article>` specifies self contained content that could exist on its own, such as a blog post.

- `<section>` is similar to `<article>` but non semantic

4. **_What Elements does a “typical” website include?_** - A typical website `<body>` would probably include the elements:

- `<header>`
- `<main>`
- `<footer>`

5. **_How does metadata influence Search Engine Optimization?_** - Metadata can influence search engine optimisation as the search engines will look through this metadata and search for keywords and information relevent to the user's search.
6. **_How is the <meta> HTML tag used when specifying metadata?_** - The `<meta>` tag does not need to be closed, as in it simply has an opening tag with attributes and no actual content.

## How to start to design a website

1. **_What is the first step to designing a Website?_** - The first step to designing a website is to set out a wireframe document showing your desired website layout, on a piece of paper or using a specific wireframe program.
2. **_What is the most important question to answer when designing a Website?_** - What should the website accomplish? What is it for?

## Semantics

1. **_Why should you use an <h1> element over a <span> element to display a top level heading?_** - A `<h1>` element is semantic and a `<span>` element is not, a screen reader or similar might want to target a header specifically, and the `<span>` element does not give that kind of information.
2. **_What are the benefits of using semantic tags in our HTML?_** - Semantic tags can be useful as the browser knows what they are and what purpose they have. They can make your code easier to parse by a human and more accessible.

## What is JavaScript?

1. **_Describe 2 things that require JavaScript in the Browser?_**

- Popup alert windows
- Changing the colour of an element upon the click of a button.

2. **_How can you add JavaScript to an HTML document?_** - Javascript can be written within the `<script></script>` element.
