# Class 10 Read: Debugging

## Troubleshooting basics

1. **_Name some key differences between a Syntax Error and a Logic Error._** - A syntax error is like a spealling mistake in your code that causes it to not run at all. A logic error is when your code is working, it's just not doing what you want it to do.
2. **_List a few types of errors that you have encountered in past lab assignments and explain how you were able to correct them._**

- When encountering a syntax error I will read the error message displayed and go to the line and column in question to try to spot the mistake.
- When encountering a logical error I will think very hard about the intended behavior of the code and will oftn insert console logs into areas that I suspect may not be performing as intended.

3. **_How will this topic continue to influence your long term goals?_** - debugging will always be important! And some debugging philosophies can apply over many coding languages, and even some aspects of real life.

## The JavaScript debugger

1. **_How would you describe the JavaScript Debugger tool and how it works to someone just starting out in software development?_** - The Debugger is a kind of tool that allows you to watch your code very closely to see what it is doing, in order to identify where it is going wrong
2. **_Define what a breakpoint is._** - A breakpoint is a spot in the code that you've told it to stop exectuting at within the debugger.
3. **_What is the call stack?_** - The call stack is a list of functions that have been called in order for the code to reach the breakpoint.
