# Class 05 read: Putting it all together

## Thinking in React

1. **_What is the single responsibility principle and how does it apply to components?_** - One component should do one thing. This is so components can be used modularly and mixed and matched.
2. **_What does it mean to build a ‘static’ version of your application?_** - A static version of a React app displays only static data with no interactivity, just to establish the structure of the app.
3. **_Once you have a static application, what do you need to add?_** - state variables and other dynamic elements.
4. **_What are the three questions you can ask to determine if something is state?_**

   - Does it remain unchanged over time? If so, it isn’t state.
   - Is it passed in from a parent via props? If so, it isn’t state.
   - Can you compute it based on existing state or props in your component? If so, it isn’t state.

5. **_How can you identify where state needs to live?_** - State should live in the closest common parent of the components that need to access this particular state variable.

## Higher-Order Functions

1. **_What is a “higher-order function”?_** - A higher order function returns a function or takes a function as an argument.
2. **_Explore the greaterThan function as defined in the reading. In your own words, what is line 2 of this function doing?_**

- `function greaterThan(n) {`
- `return m => m > n;`
- `}`
- `let greaterThan10 = greaterThan(10);`
- `console.log(greaterThan10(11));`
- Line 2 is returning a function that has an argument `m` which will compare to the argument `n` of the overall function.

3. **_Explain how either map or reduce operates, with regards to higher-order functions._** - if `map()` is set to perform a function for each array method, it can be thought of as a higher order function as it takes a function as an argument.
